
# Features

Features of ISC cron relative to BSD 4.[23] and SysV crons:

--	Environment variables can be set in each crontab.  SHELL, USER,
	LOGNAME, and HOME are set from the user's passwd entry; all except
	USER can be changed in the crontab.  PATH is especially useful to
	set there.  TZ can be set, but cron ignores it other than passing
	it on through to the commands it runs.  Format is

		variable=value

	Blanks surrounding the '=' will be eaten; other blanks in value are
	okay.  Leading or trailing blanks can be preserved by quoting, single
	or double quotes are okay, just so they match.

		PATH=.:/bin:/usr/bin
		SHELL=/bin/sh
		FOOBAR = this is a long blanky example

	Above, FOOBAR would get "this is a long blanky example" as its value.

	SHELL and HOME will be used when it's time to run a command; if
	you don't set them, HOME defaults to your /etc/passwd entry
	and SHELL defaults to /bin/sh.

	MAILTO, if set to the login name of a user on your system, will be the
	person that cron mails the output of commands in that crontab.  This is
	useful if you decide on BINMAIL when configuring cron.h, since binmail
	doesn't know anything about aliasing.

<br>

### Weekdays

*You can specify weekdays by name.*

You need to write the first `3` <br>
characters in whatever you like.

<kbd> Mon </kbd>  
<kbd> Tue </kbd>  
<kbd> Wed </kbd>  
<kbd> Thu </kbd>  
<kbd> Fri </kbd>  
<kbd> Sat </kbd>  
<kbd> Sun </kbd>

<br>

### Months

*You can specify months by name.*

You need to write the first `3` <br>
characters in whatever you like.

<kbd> Jan </kbd>  
<kbd> Feb </kbd>  
<kbd> Mar </kbd>  
<kbd> Apr </kbd>  
<kbd> May </kbd>  
<kbd> Jun </kbd>  
<kbd> Jul </kbd>  
<kbd> Sep </kbd>  
<kbd> Oct </kbd>  
<kbd> Nov </kbd>  
<kbd> Dec </kbd>

<br>

### Mixing

Ranges & lists can be mixed.

*Standard Cron doesn't allow `1,3-5`*

<br>

### Stepping

Ranges can specify a **Step** value.

`10-16/2`  **[≍]**  `10,12,14,16`

<br>

### Sunday

Can be specified as both `0` & `7`.

*Apparently **BSD** & **ATT** disagree on about this.*

<br>

### User

Every user gets their own **CronTab** <br>
file like in **System V**s version of **Cron**.

#### BSD 4.2

Only root was allowed to have one.

#### BSD 4.3

- The **CronTab** format was made incompatible.

- Non-root UIDs could run the command.

- Only root could edit the **CronTab** file.

<br>

### System V

The `crontab` command is loosely compatible with <br>
**System V**, but has been extended with more options.

Running the command without arguments <br>
shows a summary on how to use of the it.

<br>

### Comments

- Must be on a line by themselves

- Can have leading whitespace

- `#` starts the comment

<br>

### Autoreload

If the `crontab` command changes any **CronTab**, <br>
the `cron` daemon will automatically reload all <br>
tables before the next iteration.

#### Other Crons

- may require you have to kill & restart the daemon.

- may unnecessarily read & parse the config continuously.

<br>



--	In order to support the automatic reload, the crontab files are not
	readable or writable except by 'crontab' or 'cron'.  This is not a
	problem, since 'crontab' will let you do pretty much whatever you
	want to your own crontab, or if you are root, to anybody's crontab.

--	If any output is generated by a command (on stdout OR stderr), it will
	be mailed to the owner of the crontab that contained the command (or
	MAILTO, see discussion of environment variables, above).  The headers
	of the mail message will include the command that was run, and a
	complete list of the environment that was passed to it, which will
	contain (at least) the USER (LOGNAME on SysV), HOME, and SHELL.

--	the dom/dow situation is odd.  '* * 1,15 * Sun' will run on the
	first and fifteenth AND every Sunday;  '* * * * Sun' will run *only*
	on Sundays;  '* * 1,15 * *' will run *only* the 1st and 15th.  this
	is why we keep 'e->dow_star' and 'e->dom_star'.  I didn't think up
	this behaviour; it's how cron has always worked but the documentation
	hasn't been very clear.  I have been told that some AT&T crons do not
	act this way and do the more reasonable thing, which is (IMHO) to "or"
	the various field-matches together.  In that sense this cron may not
	be completely similar to some AT&T crons.


<!----------------------------------------------------------------------------->

[≍]: # 'Is equivalent to'